to me one of the more hilarious sort of
unintentionally ironic criticisms of my
channel is that I don't listen to
criticism and I don't respond to
criticism I don't know any other channel
into vegan demi-monde that spends more
time not to listening responding to
criticism and that that complaint was
leveled at me for example in the context
of my dispute with a natural vegan which
is a dispute about the nature of
domestication of animals castration of
pet dogs the kind of things I provided
video after video long substantive
videos and in-depth discussions in
response to criticism on that point I
responded to criticism from durianrider
you can look at how many papers and
papers spots those criticisms and even
the Nina and Randa thing I mean I think
I've I think of one video in response to
my presumed critics on that issue um I
you know it's ridiculous to the people
say that but about beyond that I do
actively seek out a criticism and I get
it including from my my patreon
supporters people who pay the one dollar
to support me on patreon um now there's
another kind of hilarious unintentional
irony there because a guy you may have
heard of called the vegan cheetah he has
repeatedly claimed that my patreon is
only full of people who agree with me
that there's no dispute that there's no
debate we're having now what Charles is
doing there is really very insincere you
can actually hear Charles and videos on
my channel um I guess Muslim our list
now and in the podcast he did with me um
that he doesn't actually have anything
against people using patreon this is for
some reason a pose he's adopted I guess
just to generate controversy at a thin
air but he doesn't actually have any
moral opposition to using patreon as
opposed to any other website for
socializing with your followers which is
what it is in partner minutes apart away
from people to actually support me
financially because I need the support
and it's all just wave people interact
with me double talk to me you know
people talk to me right now I'm
streaming this right now on you now
attacks people on YouTube and I have a
huge number of videos during me talking
to people via Skype and the
he goes into podcaster videos so right
of all the channels to criticize on this
front one of these always said to people
don't act like it's hard to find me
everybody who's wanted to criticize me
including Jeff Nelson that's a very easy
time getting in touch with me and
criticizing me I maybe not think their
critiques have merit but I hear the
criticisms I respond to their criticisms
I don't think Jeff Nelson is happy about
that actually Jeff Nelson's wife
actually made a copyright complaint
against my video in which I call Jeff
Nelson a jerk and to me that was
hilarious and by the way YouTube
dismissed her copyright claim but like
so what's what's the what's the mirror
to the claim is the point you married
him so you invented this you know I me
like hey who are you to call my husband
a jerk I invented this you you're
violating my copyright I've got a
copyright on calling Jeff Nelson an
[ __ ] like but she did Jeff Nelson's
wife made a copyright claim against my
video that was discussing my you know
extremely shallow conflict with Jeff
Nelson but in all those cases I heard
criticism and i replied to criticism and
engaged whether it's deep enough for you
or shallow enough for you or whatever I
engaged in different kinds of debate
with my viewers and with people of other
channels etc etc so um what an intro um
anyway I guess I'll just before I get on
to the main topic of this video um it is
insincere a lot of what cheetah does is
insincere he's lying and he knows that
he's lying I'm you know this stuff he
says about my core case the stuff he
says about my private life the study
says about my divorce and my family life
he has lied about many many things
things he says about my love life and he
knows that he's lying and I'm in a
unique position because I know that he
knows that he's flying um but some of
these things I think he kind of starts
off in a more of improvised manner and
then he may be forgets why he's doing
them
I noticed in his most recent video like
he's repeating this notion that he came
up with that veganism is not actually
healthier than a meat-based diet than a
diet including meat and dairy and eggs
now he's been playing with that notion
for a long time he would normally kind
of skate up to the edge of saying it and
not quite commit to the concept and you
know he also very vaguely suggests that
it is unscientific to suggest that you
know to claim that veganism is healthier
than a standard diet based on meat dairy
and eggs um his level of research I mean
like some people complain that vegan
gains doesn't do enough research to
support a stuff as well okay if you give
vegan games gains at seven out of 10 for
his level of consulting you know
peer-reviewed scientific sources vegan
cheetah gets a zero out of ten I
remember this part of his conflict with
the redheaded vegan you know uh was that
he was actually claiming that veganism
won't help you avoid getting cancer
would help you avoid getting heart
attack and I really know that kind of
thing where does it come from I think on
some level he just spontaneously in a
matter of improvisation he comes up with
something like that and he gets positive
feedback from his audience I mean I
guess for that one on some level maybe
he wants the argument for veganism to be
purely ethical to not be health based or
what have you but then he he pretty soon
forgets why he said it in the first
place like sorry why are you claiming
why are you actually claiming that a
diet including eggs and cheese and meat
is healthier than aveda whatwhat's
[ __ ] for that um is not hard to
refute that claim and cheetah if he did
any fact-checking whatsoever he could
refute his own his own claim um but he's
not into that so in the same way I mean
I think at some point he just came up
with this idea that he could insult
other vegans on YouTube that he could
say they were fake activists and so on
by saying that they're on patreon and
therefore their moral imperative again
when he talked to me privately he never
out that way when he talked to me
publicly in videos on my channel and on
the podcast did together he was totally
supportive II thought it was a totally
good thing I mean again maybe I wonder
maybe there was an impulse that made
sense there at some early stage he's
just forgotten what it was like maybe an
earlier stage his point was that people
who claim to be doing activism on your
behalf are doing something immoral and
that was the case with amin yeah so
someone just mentioned the example of
that vegan couple and in the old days I
remember the old description from vegan
revolution where he was saying he was
going to do some kind of edgy
in-your-face activism with your
donations a boy sir there was one other
example at in mind but it's just slip on
mine now oh yeah right so so Joe vegan
himself Joe vegan his claim has changed
his description right Joe vegan used to
say if you donate money to him he was
going to start this farm Sanctuary as
soon as he was getting six of dollars a
month and he has changed that I the
other day I checked out his description
now just more vaguely says that you're
donating money and eventually he wants
to start a farm Sanctuary no longer
suggests that when he gets the six
hundred dollar threshold 600 hours per
month threshold that he will move to
Portugal and start this farm sanctuary
so yeah people can make misleading
promises on patreon and I've known some
others who were criticized okay what are
their names happy healthy vegan they
were criticized I think you know rightly
or justifiably because they they were
promising that if you donated money to
them above a certain amount five dollars
or tendo I forget but if you donate a
certain meta money that they would
promote you on their channel that they
would give you a shout out thus
promoting your YouTube channel so for a
lot of people that was enticing and from
what I hear on what I read they did not
deliver you know people were donating
money and they were not getting what
they expected in terms of actually
having a shout out supporting their
channel on on the happy healthy vegan
channel chaves is a larger your base you
um yes you know are there I mean again
like I wonder on some love
when he started playing this game maybe
cheetah had a point you know the same
thing with like the ridiculous health
claims like claiming that veganism
doesn't give you an advantage in terms
of cancer or heart attacks at some point
I don't know six months ago maybe he was
saying so it made sense maybe he was
challenging some over-the-top health
claims from freely or other die groe I
don't know you you get the feeling that
this is an echo of what was once a
rational thought it's it's echoed back
and forth of nature that so many times
that's become completely irrational and
practically meaningless right um in the
same way whatever his criticism was of
patreon as a website or is something
that vegans do um maybe at one point he
had a specific criticism made sense
whether it was for that vegan couple or
for happy healthy vegan or for somebody
but his criticisms do not make sense
when applied to me and he does like to
repeat the Vatican I don't know how many
times he's made this argument that
somehow what I'm doing on the internet
uh is evil because I have a patreon and
in his opinion I don't respond to
criticism now in this very video you're
about to see me respond to some
criticism or some contrasting
disagreeable Apes but actually so what I
have way more than 400 videos on my
youtube channel we're coming up pretty
soon it's gonna hit 500 hahahaha and if
you just scroll down for those videos
actually quite a few of them are me
responding to criticism I respond to
criticism ever Steve in written form I
respond to criticism I getting patreon
comments I respond to criticism where
it's an actual debate or dispute with
other vegans you many many times I've
done that and you know it's not the case
it's a cheetah's phrase that he's so so
proud of what is it is not the case that
my patreon is an intellectual ghetto now
just today I got a comment taking the
opposite direction so can I have some
videos that are uploaded now but they're
not published yet so patreon subscribers
have seen them but they're not yet on
YouTube for everyone to see by of a
video up
in someone within patreon wrote to me
and said look you know why do you even
spend the time replying to your critics
most of these people and he was
referring to a certain kind of credit we
said most of these people they're not
interested in the truth they're never
going to know the truth when the truth
is proving them they disregard it's just
you know why why even bother um you know
interesting point but my reply to him
keeping it a hundred percent real was
poverty if I had more money I wouldn't
reply to some of this criticism he was
referring to stuff like people who are
calling me a fraud which includes
cheetah people who claim that you know
my fundraising campaign was anything
other than exactly what it was but
amazing paint but raising campaign let's
be clear many other vegans have done
fundraising that did not go to plan
where things did not turn out the way
people planned it things did not turn
out the way they wanted it Aaron Janice
whom you know I'm basically a fan of
shut up to Aaron I mean I just like her
as a person and obviously she's made
some good videos she's made some good
videos that reached a really large
audience so by the way I'm hands-free
some people also used to complain that
i'm always holding the mic sometimes i
don't hold the mic and you can knock the
mic over that way anyway but you know
Aaron Janice did a fundraiser uh trying
to save zero and a donkey and there were
all these complications and it didn't
work out it wasn't a scandal it just
didn't work out it did not go to plan my
fundraiser went one hundred percent the
plan raised the money paid the lawyer
got the paperwork going I there's a lot
I can complain about but you know
lawsuits or whatever was a naive a
lawsuit legal cases are never fun but
you know um whenever people say what
happened the money what happened the
money is exactly what the [ __ ] racer
said what happened to the money you know
so anyway to me that's that's ridiculous
but the question was asked why do you
even bother replying to these people
yeah fundamentally my reason is poverty
and my reason for being on patreon is
poverty I mean it is interested me
cheetah doesn't really ask this question
but he asked about some of the more
successful youtubers why are they on
patreon if they're so wealthy if there's
a successful if they have so much income
in some cases that may be a worthwhile
question with durianrider for years he
was saying
how wealthy he was he was saying that he
lived like one of the richest people in
the world he had some caveats in there
but he would say that he had a better
lifestyle than doctors and surgeons and
lawyers you know he i just mentioned
durianrider would really make a great
show of how wealthy and successful he
was and he would have himself filmed
getting into a I think a Lamborghini or
a Ferrari some very expensive car he
represented for so long that he had more
money than he knew what to do with and
then durianrider opens a patreon asking
for donations well well it's it's a bit
I'd it's a bit questionable and I mean
if if he just said he was broke I'd
understand it and I wouldn't have any
questions so yeah sometimes there are
questions there in my case currently my
income is zero I've absolutely no income
in a couple of months i'm supposed to be
starting a new job in China being a
teacher on a university campus if you
want to say that's a university
professor you can I mean the reality is
from the students perspective my job is
being a university professor I relate to
them I might duties my responsibility to
them or just as serious as any other
university professor but in most Western
countries instead of Professor you'll
say instructor if someone is at a lower
level so whatever I will be a university
instructor and that pays five thousand
Chinese un so 5,000 units of the Chinese
currency per month so you can look that
up with your exchange rate right now
that maybe seven hundred fifty dollars a
month maybe six hundred dollars a month
I think in Euros it's about 600 right
now I don't I don't follow the exchange
rates but it is shockingly little money
and so I've been able to say even if my
patreon just generates 300 US dollars a
month for me that is very significant
because my salary will be solo here in
China and I may be in china for years
then if i can earn three hundred dollars
on patreon that means a lot to me means
a lot to me in other ways too uh yeah i
could talk about that there ought to be
a different topic for a different video
maybe that should be the topic of this
video what does patreon mean to me you
know what let's change topics now 15
minutes in the video i was good i was
going to respond to a set of criticisms
that i have here from emails and i think
I show them yeah they're all emails from
patreon subscribers the message is sent
within patriarchy but you know what i
can i can upload that as a separate
video what does patreon mean to me you
know a lot of the measurements here on
YouTube are meaningless to me how many
subscribers do you have even how many
views do you have you know what patreon
really lets you have is a much more
meaningful interaction with your
audience for one thing there's a barrier
to entry the barrier to entry is one
dollar per month by the way anyone can
sign up if you want to come in and have
a look around if you actually believe
any of the crazy theories that people
like vegan chi to circulate that there's
something mysterious or uh I don't know
morally odious about my patreon group if
you sign up now you don't pay the same
day that you sign up you get a number of
days for free before you get billed even
that one dollar so you can pay nothing
and just come in and have a look around
and what you're going to find is I post
the videos that you see here on YouTube
and people comment and I see those
comments and the other subscribers see
those comments and they can reply and
chat with each other which was for me
always one of the meaningful things
about patreon the idea of creating a
crossroads where like-minded vegans
could hook up with each other and start
to make something positive happen
whether you call that activism or not so
you know the one dollar barrier to entry
which isn't even immediate but once you
enter you can stay for a number of days
for free and then patreon will send you
an email saying we're going to start
billing you on this day if you stay in
um you know I get messages from people
on patreon about exactly how my work has
positively impacted their lives I've
always been working with an audience
that is narrow but deep it needless to
say a small number of people want to
hear what I've got sympathy can fault
text a fish for ages all kinds people
including cheetah himself back in the a
cheetah Jason Posey no Aaron Janice a
lot of people have sent me messages
trying to coach me on how to have a
bigger channel and one of the things
I've always said challenging them in
response was how big do you think this
channel can really get and you know
there's actually saying that originally
comes from Buddhist philosophy
got picked up in Europe by Vic and stein
and other people which is that you know
the ladder isn't useful in itself so you
know when you get to the top of the
ladder or kick it away this kind of
image this does actually come out of
Buddhist philosophy many Europeans don't
know that but you know for a lot of
people you have to remember veganism is
a fundamentally simple concept and even
if they find my channel useful or
inspiring at one stage of their lives
they don't want to continue in that
debate or that dialogue forever I think
there are a lot of people who come to my
channel they watched some videos for a
couple of weeks they say yeah that's
something to really think about and then
they go back to their lives and quite
possibly they go back to their lives as
vegan activists or as vegans who are
just busy with full-time jobs and are
not activists um but it's like Ethan
like the potential number of viewers who
might watch a couple of videos and then
walk away okay you can estimate that
number but the number of people were
going to come back again and again day
after day week after week I don't
illusions this is a small number of
people and I appreciate that for that
small number of people you know my
influence on them is deep now among the
examples of people i have really deeply
influenced is vegan cheat himself
Charles Marlow he went through a period
and a lot of people I think who remember
it will laugh at him for this he went
through a period where he was really
imitating the style and the tone and
many of the topics on my channel where
many of his videos were directly
responding to my material he still
picked up some of his vocabulary some of
his turns of phrase you can tell he's
imitating stuffy see how much I always
influenced by it consciously
unconsciously and he changed everything
he was doing in his life dramatically he
enrolled in university decided to go
back to school because of some things
that he saw me say on on my channel and
he I think the videos are still up where
he talks about that dramatic change 10
minutes left guess what he's not the
only one I mean there are a lot of
people have had that kind of meaningful
impact on their lives so patreon opens a
door where those people can impact my
life and you know in a meaningful way
it's one dollar and again there's
nothing nefarious about it if you look
at the comments section like in terms of
those there's an open comment section on
patreon where you know people chat and
oh it's it's not completely open to the
public but any of the other members can
see it and then also they have the
ability to send me private messages and
I do get really meaningful private
messages from people up frequently
disagreeing with me frequently
criticizing me you can see that in the
public comments as well and many many
many of my videos are replies to
questions post on patreon debates that
have kind of happened within my patreon
page um the irony is the reality of what
patreon is for me is almost exactly 180
degrees opposite to what cheetah
complains it is because cheetahs
complaint is that I'm making a silo that
I'm creating a Necco chamber that I'm
creating a what does he say closed
intellectual ghetto where only people
who agree with me can be heard and
nothing could be further from the truth
and as I say if your complaint is that
this channel doesn't spend enough time
responding to criticism I just got one
message within patron today not really
complaining but suggesting to me that I
should I was spending too much time
responding to criticism because I do I
respond to criticism incredibly stupid
criticism claiming that I'm a member of
the CIA that I'm secretly trying to
destroy theism from the inside criticism
that you know financially what I'm doing
is a fraud etc etc and I respond to some
really meaningful criticism so I guess
right now after I wrap this up I'm gonna
record some comments on that we've just
been a debate lately uh it started in
the pages of my patreon and is now on
YouTube about minimalism the interaction
between vegan and minimalism and you
know veganism versus minimalism and the
past you as you guys know there were the
debates about pet ownership and so many
so many topics so many gray areas that
you know what is the status of wild
animals and hunted animals um so anyway
and there you go I've just spent 21
minutes responding to yet another
criticism that I do think fundamentally
is both stupid and misguided but uh
cheetah I mean I guess it is just part
of his act some of these things as I
said with his call
on nutrition the science of nutrition
and that his claims veganism is not
healthier for you than a diet that
includes me Terry and eggs um at some
point maybe had some idea maybe he had
some kind of incisive and critical point
to make but i think i think if anyone on
youtube is suffering from the echo
chamber effect it's him because he says
that and he gets hyped up he really
cares what his audience thinks about him
and if he gets positive feedback even
from meat eaters in his audience if
people saying to him yeah yeah you tell
him you know he gets positive feedback
for any of these kind of memes he
creates on his channel he then seems to
repeat them and repeat them um trying to
get that same positive reaction of his
audience and he seems to forget why he
was even saying it in the first place is
there room for criticism of particular
vegans what they're doing on youtube
what promises they're making whether or
not to deliver this but yes absolutely
I'm sure that's that's very important
and I showed it a channel i can remember
i don't know six months ago because they
criticized happy healthy vegan on that
the happy at the beacon we're making
promises then we're delivering on sure
great uh what is my patient fifth
flipper on its promises nope unlike
other many other patrons channels
recommend that you donate as much as
possible and i do the opposite i tell
we're donate the minimum possible i say
don't give me ten dollars a month
because then you'll be disappointed give
me one dollar a month and um you know
let's try to uh let's try to set the
basis for a long-term meaningful set of
friendships because one of the themes
have come back to again and again on
this channel is that i do think that all
political activism at bottom it is built
on friendship it's built on
relationships of trust and respect and
you know you have to set up a basis for
cooperation with people and do i believe
that patreon can play a positive role in
the vegan movement in that way yes
absolutely and you know the quality of
interaction you get with people who have
just made that commitment to pay one
dollar instead of 0 the youtube is free
it's a huge difference
and I'm not the only one I think there
will be other people who are sincerely
trying to build the constituency trying
to build try to build a community let's
use that word community trying to build
a network of people who can really
cooperate it make something positive
happened long term and there's no doubt
to me patreon is a is a very powerful
tool it's a very worthwhile website and
for anyone out here who's keeping it
real I encourage you I encourage you to
try to do the same thing